---
layout: subpage
title: CS2105 Module Review
description: NUS CS2105 Module Review
---

In this section, I'm writing my personal take on CS2105, how I felt about it,
and probably some advice for the juniors who have yet to take this mod too!

I've also left the same [module review](https://nusmods.com/modules/CS2105/introduction-to-computer-networks)
on NUSMods.

---

_Taken in AY19/20 Sem 2_

_Lecturer: Asst Prof. Richard Ma, and Asst Prof. Roger Zimmermann_

**Description:**

This module is an introductory module to computer networks.

In the first week or so, we were given a broad overview of what computer networks
are, what the Internet is made up of, and also how the overarching complexity calls
for a need of (hierarchical) layered abstraction, into the various Internet protocols.

In the subsequent weeks, we studied the 5 layered protocols one by one, starting
from the application layer, down to the transport layer, the network layer,
then link layer, and finally the physical layer.

However, for our batch, due to Covid-19 and time constraints, we didn’t cover
the physical layer.

Nonetheless, we still looked abit into how multimedia network applications, such as;
video streaming and video conferencing, worked behind scenes.

All in all, each layered protocol, have their own fair share of technicalities in
which they operate, and also rules which govern how data at that layer is encoded.

Also, to implement its own services, each layer makes use of the services
provided by the lower layers.

**Relationship to CS2040S:**

There wasn’t really much overlap with CS2040S in this module, although it was a
prerequisite.

In a sense that although the various protocols, such as; Domain Name Service (DNS)
protocol, Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), and Carrier-Sense Multiple Access
(CSMA) protocol, did implement some algorithms, those algorithms did not specify
any data structure(s).

However, one exception was the distance vector intra-as routing algorithm, where
the network and its routers, were modelled as a graph and the bellman-ford
algorithm was used to calculate shortest paths in terms of hops across the
network.

Other than that, the algorithms did not seem to (explicitly) use any of
those advanced data structures, such as; binary heaps, Binary Search Trees (BSTs),
and hash tables.

**Some study tips (my two cents worth):**

Prior to this module, we always take for granted computer networks and the
data transfer across it, treating it as yet another abstraction.

But this module offers a rather comprehensive overview of the underlying
mechanisms of computer networks, and how the intricate pieces combined together,
allows for practical computer-computer communication.

I would say the contents covered in this module, were not as heavy, and hard to
grasp, in comparison to the other CS modules I’ve taken like; CS2106, CS2040,
and maybe CS2100.

But do expect some math nonetheless, be it in lectures, tutorials, labs,
midterms or the exams, as this is a CS mod after all.

For the midterms and exams, there were around 40% mathy questions which were
used to validate our understanding of the concepts.

On the whole, the midterms and exams, were pretty manageable, although
there were some trick questions.

Doing sufficient PYP’s should help in getting the hang of the questions.

As for the labs, the math appeared in the algorithms I guess.

There were some challenging lab problems which required careful thinking for the
formulation of algorithms to solve those problems and to handle all the edge-cases.

However, as I’ve mentioned, these algorithms should not involve those advanced data
structures we learnt in CS2040S.

Also, another thing to note, were that the labs were in Python (although you could
use Java or C++ if you prefer), a type-insensitive language, close to Source/JavaScript
which we’ve learnt in CS1101S.

Mainly, we used the imperative programming style to solve the lab problems, as like
the CS2106 and CS2100 labs, so it should not involve the declarative style and
recursion, unless you opt to use it.

It might be a good idea to read-up on some basic Python, to familiarise with the
various language-specific constructs such as the syntax for variables, arrays,
loops, functions, debugging statements, etc.

I think that’s pretty much it, for the contents and assessments.

Finally, in my opinion, I do not think the recommended textbook is necessary in
understanding the concepts, although it’s nice to have as a supplementary material,
for a more in-depth understanding of those concepts.

All the best, and hope this helps!

Effort: 5/10

Difficulty: 6/10

Expected Grade: B+

Actual Grade: B+
