---
layout: subpage
title: ES2660 Module Review
description: NUS ES2660 Module Review
---

In this section, I'm writing my personal take on ES2660 and how I felt about it and, probably some
advice for the juniors who have yet to take this mod too!

I've also left the same [module review](https://nusmods.com/modules/ES2660/communicating-in-the-information-age)
on NUSMods.

---

_Taken in AY19/20 Sem 1_

_Lecturer: Mr. Seow, and Ms GL Lee (module coordinator)_

**Description:**

This module is about Critical Thinking(CT), and the Communication of ideas derived
during the CT process (which is technically part of CT too).

The Ennis(2011) CT framework, together with Barrett's 5-levels of questioning (taxonomy),
were briefly introduced to us at the start of the semester.

Throughout the semester, these 2 frameworks were given an in-depth lookthrough, but with
emphasis on the applications, rather than the theoretical aspects (e.g, justification on
why Ennis designs the framework the way it is).

As such, during most of our weekly sessions, we performed (CT) analysis on a myraid of
sources, be it academic writings, newspaper articles, excerpts of movies, and even
fairytale stories.

In particular, the CT skills covered for the Ennis(2011) framework were; (socratic)
questioning, identification of assumptions, deconstruction of arguments,
deduction and judgement of sources implicitly (through language, organisation,
layout) and explicitly (through credibility of author's sources).

While as with the Barrett's taxonomy, we covered all the 5-levels; Appreciation,
Evaluation, Inferential Comprehension, Reorganisation, Literal Comprehension.

Communication of CT-ideas were also covered in this module, be it written or spoken
communication, academic vs informal conversations, and group presentations.

**Relationship to ES1103:**

While ES1103 focuses solely on written academic communication, ES2660 covers
Communication in a variety of different contexts as mentioned above.

However, do expect some overlap in the academic writing part.

Things like writing a thesis and conclusion, overall essay structuring, and
integrating and synthesizing of sources, were covered again albeit in lesser
depth.

However, in ES2660, there was a little more emphasis on highlighting your CT
ideas in a clear and concise manner too.

**Some study tips (my two cents worth):**

As others have mentioned, this module is compulsory for CS students, so we have
to take it somehow.

On a positive note, the CT skills taught to us in this module are not only useful
linguistically, but applicable in virtually any discipline as well.

However, half the time I didn't really know what I was doing for this module,
and just felt the pace to be quite intense, with many things covered.

As with assessments, I would say there is a fair mix of how we are accessed based
on written and spoken communication.

Also, there is a fair balance between the group and individual assignments.

And this balance is good, because depending on your strengths, you could try to focus
on other assignments which you have more confidence of doing better, and
actually use them to help pull your weaker assignments.

Like for me, I was not so strong at public speaking and group work, so I tried to
focus more on doing better in those individual and written assignments.

Finally, I would estimate that the overall workload for this module to be moderately
heavy, due to the numerous assignments we had to catch-up with throughout the course.

All the best, and hope this helps!

Effort: 7/10

Difficulty: 7/10

Expected Grade: B

Actual Grade: B
