---
layout: subpage
title: MA2108S Module Review
description: NUS MA2108S Module Review
---

In this section, I'm writing my personal take on MA2108S, how I felt about it,
and probably some advice for the juniors who have yet to take this mod too!

I've also left the same [module review](https://nusmods.com/modules/MA2108S/mathematical-analysis-i-s)
on NUSMods.

---

_Taken in AY19/20 Sem 2_

_Lecturer: Asst Prof. Denny Leung_

**Description:**

This module is on analysis, a broad topic in mathematics. It’s probably one of the
first few modules the mathematics school offers on this broad topic, if you’re
interested.

In the first week, we were introduced to algebraic fields, and the what it means for
a field to be order complete. This formed the basis for a more abstract perspective
of the real space.

Then, in the next few weeks, we assumed the real space (endowed with the euclidean
metric), to study topics handy in Analysis like sequences and series.

In the subsequent weeks till end of the semester, we dived head-on to study
metric spaces rigorously.

For metric spaces, we started with continuity and it’s various reformulations. Thereafter we
mainly covered the 3C’s; connectedness, completeness, and compactness.

Along the way, some topics bouldering on topology such as; connectedness,
open/closed sets, were also introduced.

Additionally, towards the end of the semester, there were other topics such as sequences
of functions, series of functions, and the C(M1, M2) metric space.

**Relationship to MA1521:**

Basically, for this module, it was so foundational that we didn’t even touch Calculus (integral
and differential calculus).

I think topics such as limits, continuity, functions, sequences and series from MA1521, were the
most relevant topics in the context of MA2108S.

However, unlike MA1521, we covered the foundations of those aforementioned topics, rather
than their applications.

Limits for example, were given a really intense and rigorous look-through, and so was
continuity and functions, all using the epsilon-delta approach to prove the existence of a
limit/continuity at a point.

Sequences were also similar, where we studied various other properties of sequences in
addition to just convergence, such as; divergence, boundedness, monotonicity, limsup and liminf,
cauchyness, and summability.

Similarly for series, we studied properties such as convergence and its various tests (e.g, abel’s
lemma, and dirichlet’s test), absolute convergence and its various tests (e.g, ratio test,
root test, etc), rearrangement, summation by parts, and summability.

**Relationship to CS1231:**

Although this is not an official prerequisite for this MA2108S, students who take this module are
expected to do reasonably well for CS1231.

It is not hard to see why, because this module is proof-heavy, and if you will,
virtually 100% proof-based.

Hence, proof-techniques, from CS1231 are very helpful here.

Things like predicate calculus, propositional logic, various proof approaches (direct proof,
proof by contraposition, and proof by contradiction) are commonly used throughout the course and
students are assumed to have prior knowledge of those.

Additionally, there was heavy use of sets, I think it occurred in almost every chapter.

Other CS1231 knowledge assumed, were related to functions (injectivity, surjectivity, and
bijectivity), relations, equivalence classes and partitions.

**Some study tips (my two cents worth):**

I took this (notoriously) difficult module out of interest not expecting an awesome grade or
whatsoever, but because I really liked math.

This was also my first mathematics minor module, but it was also one of the hardest math module
I’ve ever taken, compared to say MA1521, CS1232, MA1101R, ST2334, etc.

Half of the time I didn’t really know what I was doing, probably because my foundations on
CS1231 and MA1521 weren’t that strong either, and personally my math ain’t that good either.

Also, I felt that the contents introduced to us in this module were quite a lot, probably, I
would say it’s roughly 1.5-2x more than CS1231.

In comparison, I don’t think the non-S version cover analysis beyond the context of R, in
the more generalised metric spaces.

However, on the bright side, learning all those additional stuffs on metric spaces were essential
to arrive at an equivalent formulation of the completeness axiom; cauchy completeness,
which I personally felt rather intriguing.

I think for a proof-heavy module like this, understanding the concepts and theorems well and how
they could be applied in various context, helps in formulating a solution/proof for
a particular problem.

Also, understanding the problem itself, well, is equally crucial too.

As some concepts especially those from metric spaces onwards such as 3Cs, and topology, can be
rather abstract and hard to understand, trying to draw some pictures to visualise might help.

Also, I felt Prof. Denny was really good at using various analogies to help us make sense of
the problems and concepts, and his lectures and tutorials were quite useful.

Another advise I could offer would be to constantly keep pace with revision and not allowing
yourself to backlog too much.

This is important since the course moves at such a fast pace and some of the topics might
be related to each other.

For my batch, we had weekly problem sets so that kinda helped in ensuring we don’t
backlog too much, but try to keep pace with this module as best possible.

Content-wise, for an average math student like myself, I felt reading the textbook (Methods
of Real Analysis, by Richard R. Goldberg), helped quite a lot in grasping the concepts,
in comparison to the otherwise fast-paced lectures.

Also, due to the Covid-19, our lectures shifted online and were recorded, and that was beneficial
as we could replay parts we didn’t really understand again, at our own pace.

Finally, as a last word of advise, I would just like to say that if you’re like me who isn’t that great
with math, and are quite concerned with grades, you might want to reconsider taking this
extremely tough math module.

This is also because you need to be prepared to spend quite a significant amount of time,
per week, on this module.

But nevertheless, as I’ve mentioned, I really liked math, and hence still went ahead to
take it nonetheless.

All in all, there were so many interesting Analysis stuffs covered in this module that I
didn’t regret taking it at all.

In fact, although I struggled quite a lot, this module was one of my favourite module.

The final choice is still yours!

All the best and hope this helps!

Effort: 9/10

Difficulty: 10/10

Expected Grade: D

Actual Grade: B
