---
layout: subpage
title: DVDs
description: Discusses the given question, the intuition behind the solution, and the solution itself
---

In this section, I will discuss the given question, the intuition behind the solution, and the
solution itself.

(Adapted from [Kattis](https://open.kattis.com/problems/dvds), license:
[CC BY-SA 3.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/).)

---

**Description:**

Dezider is very unhappy as he just discovered that his DVDs got unsorted. Dezider
is (occasionally) very organized and during one of his get-organized spells he numbered
the DVDs from $$1$$ to $$n$$. He keeps the DVDs in a tall stack and he wants to have
them sorted in increasing order by their number, with $$1$$ at the bottom and $$n$$ at
the top of the stack. The trouble is that his space allows him to perform only one
type of sorting operation: take a DVD, pull it out of the stack while the DVDs
above it fall down by one position, then place it at the top of the stack. What
is the smallest number of such operations he needs to do to sort the DVD stack?

**Input:**

The first line contains 𝑘, the number of input instances. Each input instance is
described on two lines. The first line contains $$1 \leqslant n$$ $$\leqslant 1000000$$.
The second line lists the DVDs in the initial order on the stack, from the bottom to
the top.

**Output:**

The output contains $$k$$ lines. The $$i$$-th line corresponds to the $$i$$-th input.
It contains the smallest number of operations needed to sort the stack.

(Note: In the first sample input it suffices to take DVD $$4$$ and move it to the top of the
stack; then the stack is sorted. In the second sample input one can first move DVD $$4$$
and then DVD $$5$$ to get a sorted stack.)

Sample Input 1:
```
2
4
1 4 2 3
5
5 1 2 4 3
```

Sample Output 1:
```
1
2
```


[//]: # _**Intuition**_

**Solution**

```java
public class DVDs {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Kattio io = new Kattio(System.in);

        int k = io.getInt();

        for (int i = 0; i < k; ++i) {
            int n = io.getInt();

            int[] arr = new int[n];

            for (int j = 0; j < n; ++j) {
                arr[j] = io.getInt();
            }

            int count = 1;

            for (int j = 0; j < n; ++j) {
                if (arr[j] == count) {
                    count++;
                }
            }

            io.println(n - (count - 1));
        }

        io.flush();
    }
}
```
